STREAMS-1650 add documentation for payload type event (#68)
Axway/streams-open-docs: content/en/docs/subscribers/_index.md

description: Learn how to use the different types of Subscribers supported by Streams.
---

Streams supports different subscriber types. In order for a subscriber to receive events associated to a topic, it must subscribe either via:

> * **Server-Sent Events** which enables Streams to push data to subscribers (e.g client applications) through a persistent HTTP connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Server-Sent Events** which enables Streams to push data to subscribers (e.g client applications) through a persistent HTTP connection.
```
```suggestion
* **Server-Sent Events** which enables Streams to push data to subscribers (e.g., client applications) through a persistent HTTP connection.
```

}
```

If no subscribers is defined, the [SSE subscriber](../subscribers/subscriber-sse) will be added by default.

## Subscription modes

> The subscription mode determines with which format and type of events the data will be sent to the subscribers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The subscription mode determines with which format and type of events the data will be sent to the subscribers.
```
```suggestion
The subscription mode determines the format of the data and the type of events that will be sent to the subscribers.
```

> Each subscriber can choose between different modes that determine how the data will be transmitted as far as the selected subscription mode is allowed in subscriber's configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each subscriber can choose between different modes that determine how the data will be transmitted (based on the selected subscription mode in the subscriber's configuration).
```

| Publisher Payload type | Subscription mode | Description |
|------------------------|-------------------|-------------|

> | `snapshot`   | `snapshot-only`   | Streams sends to the subscriber the entire content (snapshot), each time a change is detected. Note: Use this mode for content which is infrequently and fully updated. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `snapshot`   | `snapshot-only`   | Streams sends to the subscriber the entire content (snapshot), each time a change is detected. Note: Use this mode for content which is infrequently and fully updated. |
```
```suggestion
| `snapshot`   | `snapshot-only`   | Streams sends to the subscriber the entire content (snapshot) each time a change is detected. Note: Use this mode for content which is infrequently and fully updated. |
```

| `snapshot`   | `snapshot-patch`  | Streams sends an initial event containing the entire content (snapshot), subsequent events will contain only the changed fields in the form of an array of JSON Patch operations. Refer to [Understanding snapshot-patch mode](#understanding-snapshot-patch-mode) section for details. |

> | `event`      | `event`           | Streams sends the published events as is over time. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `event`      | `event`           | Streams sends the published events as is over time. |
```
```suggestion
| `event`      | `event`           | Streams sends the published events, as is, over time. |
```

> {{< alert title="Note" >}}The subscription modes depends on the [publisher payload type](../publishers/#selecting-your-type-of-publisher) defined for the topic.{{< /alert >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< alert title="Note" >}}The subscription modes depends on the [publisher payload type](../publishers/#selecting-your-type-of-publisher) defined for the topic.{{< /alert >}}
```
```suggestion
{{< alert title="Note" >}}The subscription modes depend on the [publisher payload type](../publishers/#selecting-your-type-of-publisher) defined for the topic.{{< /alert >}}
```

}
```

### Understanding `event` subscription mode

This mode is the only available mode when the topic is configured with a data source publishing payloads of type `event`.
Subscribers receives event as published by the publisher.

For example:

```
id: 37740aa3-3629-41c4-9a7f-24a1347383eb
event: event
data: {
  "Status":"Working - Contacted",
  "LastModifiedDate":"2021-02-26T14:14:44.000Z",
  "ChangeEventHeader":{
    "entityName":"Lead",
    "changeType":"UPDATE",
    "changedFields":["Status","LastModifiedDate"],
    "transactionKey":"0002a8c8-3c33-f5b9-9152-xxxxxx",
    "commitTimestamp":1614348884000,
    "recordIds":["00Q1t00000xxxxx"]
  }
}
```

### Understanding `snapshot-patch` subscription mode

The subscribers will only receive **incremental updates** computed by Streams between the last two payloads published in the topic.

> For example, in the context of a brokerage app, if a user subscribes to 10 different symbols, each symbol contains different fields such as identifier, last, bid, ask. But only a few of them really change at every market tick. When using `snapshot-patch` mode, Streams will automatically computes the differential data and sends the corresponding JSON patch operations to the subscribers avoiding to resend fields that have not changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in the context of a brokerage app, if a user subscribes to 10 different symbols, each symbol contains different fields such as identifier, last, bid, ask. But only a few of them really change at every market tick. When using `snapshot-patch` mode, Streams will automatically computes the differential data and sends the corresponding JSON patch operations to the subscribers avoiding to resend fields that have not changed.
```
```suggestion
For example, in the context of a brokerage app, if a user subscribes to 10 different symbols, each symbol contains different fields such as identifier, last, bid, ask. But only a few of them really change at every market tick. When using `snapshot-patch` mode, Streams automatically computes the differential data and sends the corresponding JSON patch operations to the subscribers, avoiding resending fields that have not changed.
```

}
```

## Defining default subscription mode

> You can define the default subscription mode thanks to `defaultSubscriptionMode` attribute in associated subscriber's configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define the default subscription mode with the  `defaultSubscriptionMode` attribute in the associated subscriber's configuration.
```

In case you don't define a default subscription mode, one is defined either by using the first item of `allowedSubscriptionModes` or depending on the publisher payload type.

| Publisher Payload type | defaultSubscriptionMode |
|------------------------|-------------------------|
| snapshot               | snapshot-patch          |
| event                  | event                   |

> * The default subscription mode will be used when client does not specify define any subscription mode in its subscription request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The default subscription mode will be used when client does not specify define any subscription mode in its subscription request.
```
```suggestion
* The default subscription mode will be used when the client does not define a subscription mode in the subscription request.
```
